The expectations in the previous section are minimum expectations. They are so low, in fact, that any teacher at UW that only met them would not only not be hired, but definitely would not be promoted. We expect instructors to aim higher, and this begins with understanding how learning works.
		
There are many basic ideas from the science of learning that most people do not know. Below I'll share some of this big ideas. While you read them, remember that many of your beliefs about learning are not necessarily informed by science, and be open to changing your beliefs.
		
We'll begin with *prior knowledge* <tobias1994>. Every learner you'll meet at UW knows all kinds of things. Learning involves building upon that prior knowledge, connecting new ideas to the ideas that learners already have. Effective learning actually requires explicit links to prior knowledge to be effective. For example, imagine a group of students who took a high school Advanced Placement Computer Science class and learned a bit of the Java programming language. Some students might have mastered Java and object-oriented programming, while others might have struggled the whole year. All of them might have passed and earned an adequate score on the AP exam to skip pre-requisite programming courses at UW. This varying prior knowledge is going to mean that they enter your class with different capacities to learn what you're planning on teaching. One will need to _learn_ a lot more than the other to reach the same objective.
		
To build efficiently on prior knowledge, learners need to deliberate practice <ericsson1993>. The need for practice stems from the idea that most human knowledge and abilities are acquired and improved through repeated exercising of a skill, targeted feedback on what aspects of that skill has mastered and needs to improve, and sufficient motivation to persist with practice. For example, if you're teaching the concept of privacy, it's not enough to just explain the idea, you need students to practice explaining the idea themselves, you need to give targeted feedback on their explanations of privacy, and you need to keep them motivated to improve on their explanations. Or, if you're teaching a student a new programming language, it's not enough to explain the concept of the language's function calls, you need to give examples, have students practice reading and explaining how the examples execute, and give targeted feedback on their understanding. An important implication of the need for deliberate practice is that most people can learn most things with sufficient practice, but not just any kind of practice will suffice. This body of evidence is pretty damning for most school, including higher education, which rarely provides targeted feedback, and often does not even make time for repetition of a skill. A teacher's job is to structure an environment to promote deliberate practice for the learning objectives of a class, but students are often left to structure their own practice.
		
Closely related to practice is intelligence mindset <dweck2008>. Mindset is the notion that much of students' motivation to learn derives from their beliefs about learning. Some people have a more _fixed_ mindset, believing that their abilities are innate; learners with fixed mindsets tend to avoid learning new skills, and when forced, resist improving the quality of their practices. Some people have a _growth_ mindset, believing that abilities can be learned (through practice), and they are more open to structuring their environment to optimize learning.  Teachers can change mindset, often in lightweight ways, such as regularly reminding students that skills are learned and not fixed. One common mistake that teachers make is instead reinforcing fixed mindset when they say things like "Some people just don't get it" or "Maybe this isn't for you." These attitudes not only reinforce students' fixed mindsets, but they are also inadvertently absolve a teacher from having to teach.
		
Another factor that shapes motivation is *interest* <hidi2006>. Just like minset, interests are not innate either; they are often triggered by experiences (often provided by teachers), and then developed over time, eventually becoming more internally-driven than external. Learners are often far more motivated to learn about their interests. A teacher's job is to _trigger_ interest in a subject in those without it, and _deepen_ interest in those that do. Just as with mindset, if teachers preach an innate notion of interest, students won't develop interest in a subject.
		
A third factor that shapes motivation is *identity* <wenger1998>. If a learner doesn't _see_ themselves as a person who programs computers, reasons about ethics, or analyzes data, they may be demotivated to develop interest and ability in these skills. If they don't see the values that shape their identity expressed in a subject, they may not be motivated to learn it. A teacher's job is to understand learners' identities and find ways of connecting a subject to their identities; often times, students are left to make these connections themselves.
		
Even if a student is motivated to learn, has a growth mindset, has an interest, and has an identity that aligns with a subject, structuring practice is still hard. One of the critical skills required to structure practice is *self-regulation* <zimmerman1990>, which is a constellation of skills related to monitoring one's actions, controlling impulse, reflecting on outcomes, and thinking about one's thinking. All of these skills are critical for being able to judge whether one's practice is effective, whether one needs more feedback, and whether to keep practicing. Self-regulation skills are often rare, and highly correlate with effective learning. Teachers often play the role of scaffolding self-regulation skills, by giving structure, guidelines, reminders, and other proactive interventions.
		
Even if learning is successful, it turns out that people rarely *transfer* their knowledge from one domain to another <haskell2000>. Human knowledge appears to be mostly context-sensitive; if you want students to take an idea and use it in other contexts, you need to explicitly teach them how to apply that idea in that context. There is some evidence that some people transfer knowledge independently, but it's rare and we don't know how to ensure that everyone does. Academics seem to do this more than others, which is an unfortunate expert blind spot that leads many to assume that their students will too.
		
Whereas all of the ideas above are supported by many decades of research on learning, there are many common myths about learning that are *not* true:
		
* Lecturing is generally less effective than active learning methods.Active learning methods engage students in practicing skills, recalling knowledge, and synthesizing ideas, rather than just listening. Counterintuitively, learners _perceive_ active learning as less effective than great lectures, but this is because learners perceive the struggle to learn as _not_ learning <deslauriers2019>.

* Students do not have different *learning styles* <pashler2009>.

* _All_ learners use auditory, visual, and kinesthetic information to learn, and even when learners have a preference for a particular medium, their preference has no impact on learning. That doesn't mean that methods of teaching something are equally effective for all learners, but that's because of varying prior knowledge, not differences in ways people process information from different media.

* There's no such thing as "left brained" or "right brained" students. Most people have both hemispheres and we all use both of them fully. What people are usually thinking of when they say this is that personalities vary.They do, and teaching to varying personalities does require careful planning.

* There is no magic number of hours of practice (e.g., 10,000) that result in expertise. It's the _quality_ of practice that determines the pace of learning.

* Praising intelligence does not help; it reinforces a fixed mindset. 

* Praising _effort_ and _persistence_ does help, because it promotes a growth mindset.

* Students do not "discover" their passions. They develop them. Teachers can help develop them.
	
All of these ideas show that learning is purposeful and is highly sensitive to a learners' self, self-knowledge, and environment.